Ogc api (#12)
Pure-Farming/Documentation: docs/resource-types/OGC/index.md

---

title: Connected Data
menu_order: 1
post_status: publish
post_excerpt: Connected Data
taxonomy:
    category:
        - root
    post_tag:
        - root

---

> - [Introduction](#introduction)

Author: I haven't worked on the introduction yet. Will work on the introduction after finishing other sections.

- [OGC API - Features](#ogc-api-features)

> - [Resource Types](#resource-types)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Endpoints](#endpoints)
```

- [Endpoints/Environments](#endpoints-environments)
- [Errors](#errors)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)
---

## OGC API - Features

Pure farming OGC API comply with the OGC Features API, which is a multi-part standard that makes it possible to produce, alter, and query spatial data on the web and that lays out guidelines and standards for APIs that seek to share feature data in a consistent manner. Here spatial data is defined as geographical data, thus also known as geospatial data. In other words, OGC API - Features standard allows users to work with spatial data over the web.
 Pure farming OGC API - Features standard allows users to access all the collection of geographical specifications of holdings, land-covers, and plots, without any authentication. However, if users want to get the collection of items from the APIs, they must be authenticated to access them.
The pure farming API uses OAuth2.0 for authentication. Thus, to get authentication, users are required to be passed by OAuth2.0.

> Moreover, if the users are authenticated, they will also get some additional collections of data on the geographical specifications of different holdings, land-covers, and plots that they may have access to. It means that if the users want to get a collection of a specific geographical location like holding, land-cover, or plot that they may have access to, they can also get it provided that they are authenticated with the OGC API OAuth2.0.

Reviewer: PureFarming's OGC API complies with the [OGC Features API](https://ogcapi.ogc.org/features/) standard. This is a standard that makes it possible to produce, alter, and query spatial data on the web and that lays out guidelines and standards for APIs that seek to share feature data in a consistent manner. Here spatial data is defined as geographical data, also known as geospatial data. In other words, OGC API - Features standard allows you to work with the PureFarming geospatial data in a common, standardised format.
PureFarming's OGC API allows users to access all the collection of geographical _specifications_ of holdings, land-covers, and plots, without any authentication. However, to retrieve any data through the API [you must be authenticated](/authentication/index.md).
If you are authenticated, you will also get some additional collections available on holdings, land-covers, and plots. This means that if you want to get a collection of a specific geographical location like holding, land-cover, or plot, you must be authenticated

> To learn more about the OGC API - Features standard, you can visit their website at https://ogcapi.ogc.org/features/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Resource Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Endpoints
```

- [OGC - Collections](resource-types/OGC/Collections.md)

> Collections provides list of data on geographical specifications of holdings, plots and land-covers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collections provides list of available collections of geospatial data for holdings, plots and land-covers
```

- [OGC - OGC](/resource-types/OGC/OGC.md)

> OGC provides links to the API definition, conformance and collections endpoints. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OGC provides links to the API definition, conformance and collections endpoints
```

- [OGC - Conformance](/resource-types/OGC/Conromance.md)

> Conformance provides links to the standards that OGC API conforms to. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conformance provides links to the standards that OGC API conforms to
```

---

## Errors

> The pure farming OGC API uses HTTP response status codes that indicate whether the API requests have been successful or failed.
> 
> There are five classes or groups in which all HTTP response status codes are separated. 
> 
> 1. 1xx informational response – This range of codes indicates that the request was successfully received and the process is in progress.
> 2. 2xx successful – This range of codes indicates that the request was successful. 
> 3. 3xx redirection –  This range of codes indicates that further action is required to complete the request successfully. 
> 4. 4xx client error – This range of codes indicates that the request contained bad syntax or could not be fulfilled.
> 5. 5xx server error – This range of codes indicates that the server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PureFarming OGC API uses HTTP response status codes that indicate whether the API requests have been successful or have failed.

There are five classes or groups in which all HTTP response status codes are separated. 

1. 1xx informational response – This range of codes indicates that the request was successfully received and is currently being processed.
2. 2xx successful – This range of codes indicates that the request was successful. 
3. 3xx redirection –  This range of codes indicates that further action is required to complete the request successfully. 
4. 4xx client error – This range of codes indicates that the request contained bad data, invalid parameters or could not be fulfilled.
5. 5xx server error – This range of codes indicates that the server failed to fulfill a valid request.

For more about HTTP status codes see [RFC 9110](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-status-codes)
```

### HTTP Status Code Summary

> 
> | Code | Description |
> | ---- | ----------- |
> | 200 - Ok | It indicates the success of the API request. |
> | 400 - Bad Request | It indicates that the request made was not accepted due to some client error. |
> | 404 - Not Found | It indicated that the resource requested by the user could be found. |
> | 429 - Quota Exceeded | The user has exceeded the limit of requests. |
> | 500 - Internal Server Error | Something went wrong on Pure Farming’s server. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The common status codes to look out for when using the PureFarming API are listed below (but not exhaustive!)

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 - Ok | The API successfully provided the requested data |
| 400 - Bad Request | The API could not process the request because the data provided was incorrect |
| 404 - Not Found | The item you're looking for was not found or does not exist |
| 429 - Quota Exceeded | The user has exceeded the limit of requests |
| 500 - Internal Server Error | PureFarming encountered an error while processing your request |
```

## Authentication

> Authentication
> Users must obtain authorization in order to perform an API request. Pure Farming uses OAuth2.0 for authentication, which stands for “Open Authorisation.” On behalf of a user, it enables websites or applications to access resources stored on servers run by other web apps.  
> 
> OAuth2.0 uses Access Token to provide authentication. An access token is a piece of information that symbolizes the authorization to access resources on behalf of the end-user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can access information about the API and API endpoints without being authenticated, but in order to access any data you must be authenticated. PureFarming uses OAuth2.0 for API authentication.

For more information on how to do this check out the [OAuth Overview](/authentication/index.md) page
```

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How to make an API call?

> To make an API call, firstly, the users need to find their desired API endpoint and send a request via the URI (Uniform Resource Identifier). They need to give a request verb, headers, and, optionally, a request body. Provided a valid request, an API makes a call to some external program for data and gives the data to the initial requesting program.

Reviewer: Not sure this is actually a common question? Maybe a better question is "how do I connect my geospatial software to the OGC API?

Author: Ok, we can definitely add that.

### What is spatial data?

> Data that describes everything with a spatial extent, like size, shape, or position, is known as spatial data. This spatial data is also known as geospatial data when describing information about the things that are positioned relative to the earth. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spatial data describes things with a spatial extent, like size, shape, or position. This spatial data is more commonly known as geospatial data when describing information about the things that are positioned relative to the earth.
```

> ### What are the components of HTTP requests?
> 
> There are 5 following components of HTTP requests:
> 
> 1. Verbs showing HTTP methods like GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE for retrieving, creating, updating or replacing, and deleting the resources, respectively. 
> 2. URI (Uniform Resource Identifier): URI is the identifier for the resource on the server.
> 3. HTTP version: It demonstrates the version like - HTTP V1.1.
> 4. Request Header: The Request Header contains metadata for the HTTP request message. Metadata can be a client type, a client-supported format, a message body format, a cache setting, etc.
> 5. Request Body: It demonstrates message content or resource representation.
> 
> ### What is Resource in REST?
> 
> REST architecture considers each type of content as a resource i.e., text files, HTML pages, images, videos, and dynamic business information. REST server provides the ability to access the resources and modifies them. By using URIs or global IDs, users can identify each resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Again, not sure this is a relevant FAQ. Our FAQs should focus on questions related to PureFarming specific implementations

Author: I have removed these

### Do I need authentication for all the API calls that I want to make?

> No, the users do not need to get authentication for all the API calls. They can easily make an API call to get the collections of daṭa from the API, but they are required to get authentication if they want to get the items from the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No, the you do not need to get authentication for _all_ API calls. You can easily make an API call to get information about collections of daṭa from the API.

 However - you are required to authenticate if you want to get PureFarming data from the API. See the [OAuth Overview](/authentication/index.md) page for more information
```

> ### Is there a limit to API calls?

Reviewer: Great question! I guess the answer is TECHNICALLY no, but it'll be coming pretty soon. We should probably say something like

```suggestion
### Is there a limit to API calls?

Yes. If you hit this limit you will get a 429 response back from the API. This indicates your requests are being throttled. If you find you are hitting this limit please contact us.
```

### What are conformance classes? 

> Conformance gives a list that declares modules implemented by the API. These modules are named conformance classes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A conformance class is a specification this API conforms with. PureFarming's OGC API is compatible with many different OGC specifications. For more information check out the [conformance endpoint](/resource-types/OGC/Conformance.md)
```

### I am having trouble accessing data. Whom shall I contact to?

> If you are facing any trouble accessing data or making API calls, write to us at info@mapof.ag. Our team will reach out to you and resolve your issue within 24 hours.

Reviewer: A couple of notes on this:
* I think we need a PureFarming email attached here
* Within 24 hours should be removed. There's no way that's true (at this stage)

Author: I have removed the "within 24 hours sentence." I used that email in other Pure Farming guides. Can you share a new one?

Reviewer: @daniel-buchanan Do we have an `@purefarming.com` email setup for support? Or should we just say "contact support"?

### Where can I get more help?

> If you have any other questions, this API documentation doesn't answer, kindly reach out here - info@mapof.ag.

Reviewer: Again, not sure the email address is correct here

Author: Can you please share the email ID?
